Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to we're looking at access methods within arrays.
There's a whole bunch of functionality within arrays.
We saw some of the default methods that were already available within arrays in the previous lesson.
So now we want to take this one step further and we've got our arrays set up here.
We've got a bunch of items in the array.
And in this one we're going to return some information or some representation of that array.
So instead of actually modifying the array we need some information out of that range so we can find
out what our position position of the index by using a built in method called index of a new folder.
And this is my real name and next index of index of will return back if there is a value of cat.
So let's try this and refresh it.
And now if I do position and x to get that value we see that cap is at zero.
We can also do we can pick up values so we can do index of.
And we can see that we've got a bird.
So a bird is an index number three and so on.
And this could be really useful actually for our previous exercise where we're guessing the index value
of the particular item in the array.
So what actually happens if I say something that I'm looking for and it doesn't actually exist in memory.
So if I go for horse and in this particular array I don't have a horse in it.
We get a return value of negative one.
So this can actually also be really useful because we can use this in order to detect if a value is
in the array.
So what I want you to do is pause the video and create a solution that's going to actually prompt the
user for for a response and then it's going to look for and check to see if that respondent value in
the prompt is within our array and then reply back to the user whether that is that item is exists in
the array or not.
So no that's quite a few things that are within this challenge.
So let's pause the video and I'm going to show you the solution coming up.
So welcome back.
I hope you have an opportunity to try that out.
So you know that we need a prompt.
So first one is going to be.
So maybe you can just do I just do.
Q Question And this time we're doing prompt.
And what did you want to look for.
Because we're here to look for something within this array and then we're going to return back and we're
going to check to see if it's actually an array.
And we know we need to set up a variable for a message and we also need our console log where we can
put that message so that it's readable within the console.
So next let's set message and this is where we can do a condition value.
So we've got a number of options here and I can actually copy this one sheet a little bit and I'm going
to use what I just use p.
So we're going to check to see if the query that they had entered into the prompt is available in there.
And if it's not we're going to return a negative one.
And if it is then we know that we're going to have a value that's over not negative 1 so 0 or higher.
So let's do our ternary operator here so we know that if p is
greater than negative 1 then what we're going to do is we're going to return back found.
Otherwise we're going to go not there in the message.
So let's try this so it opens up and let's go let's do horse and not there.
So let's try this again this time with Stu.
Can't we see that it's found.
So we see that this index can be used in a number of ways and this was a simplified format to quickly
search and check if the item exists within the array.
So there's actually another method that's available built in within javascript arrays where we can actually
check to see if it's included in this is that includes method so much like what we did with the index
here where we check to see if it exists.
We can get a boolean response.
Let's do new holder.
And this time we're going to use includes.
So this is a built in method within the within javascript and we need to specify what we want to include.
So let's try dog this time and we see that we get a true value.
So if we do a dog with two keys we're going to get false because that's actually not included within
the array.
So that's another way to produce the same results using another method.
And there are quite a lot of methods that are available for arrays within javascript so earlier we had
sought slice and or splice.
And we've got another one that we want to show you before we finish up this lesson and this one is called
splice.
So this actually gives us the ability to slice a part of the array and return that information back.
So let's grab that array and let's do a slice on it.
And slice basically it returns a part of the rate so different then splice because splice allowed us
to actually modify that array.
This is a method that only allows us to pull information from the array.
So we need to specify our STARTING POINT our ending index value and we can see that we can return back
dog and rabbit which is starting from index 1 and ending out before it hits index three.
So just returning back these two items.
So we don't have to specify how many but we've got a starting and a completing point in order to complete
our slice.
So this lesson I wanted to finish off by giving you some homework.
And this is to go over to the Mozilla Developer Network and take a look and see all the different things
you can do with the race because literally this will take me a whole bunch of lessons to kind of work
through all of these.
I've worked through some of the more common ones I've showed you how they work.
So now it's up to you to go over to the Web site and do some research on your own.
Find out a little bit more about what's available in arrays and what more you can do with arrays past
what we've already shown and within this lesson and the previous lessons.
So the next exercise next lesson we're going to be doing another exercise where we're going to be removing
a specific element from the array so whatever element that we're going to be asking and we're going
to remove that specific element out of the array.
So I got to show you how to do that.
Coming up.